>> Good morning, everybody.
Welcome to session 424, The Introduction to
Cocoa and Cocoa Touch Development with Xcode.
My name is Chris Espinosa.
I'm the head of the Xcode Core Team.
We got a pretty packed agenda for you today,
so we're going to jump right in to it.
This is an introductory beginner session to the Apple
developer tools, and it applies equally to those
of you developing for the iPhone as for the Mac OS.
You're going to see a lot of redundancy here, a
lot of repetition from things you saw yesterday
in the developer tools keynote if
you were there, and this morning,
if you were in the introduction to iPhone development.
But we're going to go a little more in-depth to the
concepts and practices of developing with Xcode.
Instead of rushing by things, we're going
to go a little deeper into the build system,
into creating new projects, and then to debugging.
We're going to walk you through the whole basic
development process, and we're going to set you
up to making the most of the rest of your week.
Now the big picture is that development
for software is a cycle.
First thing you need to do is design-- really helps
to start out with an idea of what you're trying to do,
rather than jumping in and just writing code.
Xcode doesn't help you much with that,
but the next step is starting a project
and then editing your code-- going to cover a lot of that.
Then you build your code and create
something that you can run.
But before you run it, you need to test it.
We're going to talk about the different ways that Xcode
helps you test your code even before you start executing it.
Then you execute and debug it, then once it's
debugged and working, then you get to tune it.
Other sessions cover tuning, we're not
going to talk about that very much today.
Then you package it and deliver it to your customers.
Those are also covered in different sessions
because they're different from Mac OS X and iPhone.
We're going to cover the things
in common from edit through debug.
Now first, you got to get the Xcode
tools on to your Macintosh, and yes,
you need a Macintosh in order to
develop for the Mac OS X or iPhone.
The easiest way to get them is when you buy a new Macintosh,
the Xcode tools are on your Mac OS X installation DVD,
and you can just install them from there.
But we're constantly updating the tools, and so
the newer tools are almost always available online.
You sign up for the Apple developer
program, and you can download them--
either just the straight Xcode
tools to develop for Mac OS X,
or you download the iPhone SDK from the iPhone Dev Center.
In most cases, when you download the iPhone SDK,
that includes all the Xcode tools you
need, you don't need a separate download.
And if you have already downloaded
the proper version of Xcode,
you can usually just get the iPhone
SDK as an add-on for that.
So you never have to download Xcode twice even if
you're developing from both Mac OS X and for the iPhone.
When you install them, you get a new folder at the top
level of your hard disk called the developer folder.
This is the center of your developer experiences
where you're going to be spending all of your time.
Now you open it up, and there's a lot of things in
there, but the only thing that you particularly care
about especially as a beginner is the
applications folder inside the developer folder.
Let's take a look at that.
Xcode is the integrated development environment.
It's where you start new projects,
it's where you edit projects,
it's where you launch projects,
it's where you debug projects.
If you're developing iPhone applications, it's where
you install and configure software on your iPhone.
It's where you'll be spending most of your time.
Interface Builder is where you design graphic
user interfaces for the Mac OS X and the iPhone.
It's where you're going to be spending
most of the remainder of your time.
If you're a Mac OS X developer, you may use Quartz Composer
to develop animations and graphics for your application.
You're going to be using Instruments to fine tune.
That will be covered in sessions later in the week.
There are some utilities, graphics tools,
and other performance tools that you'll use
when you're more advanced on the platform.
For this, we're only going to cover Xcode, and
we'll dabble a little bit into Interface Builder.
Now, the developer folder is something
you're going to hear a lot.
Well in fact, you can have multiple developer folders.
Like I said, we update Xcode tools over time, and we
have this practice of releasing betas of new tools,
and we don't recommend that you use a
beta toolset to develop production code.
This leaves you with a dilemma.
What if I want to ship something today,
but I'm using the beta toolset in order
to experiment with APIs or new operating systems?
Well, you can install 2 developer folders
side by side, and which Xcode you launch
from which developer folder determines what
sets of compilers, what Interface Builder,
what all other auxiliary programs you get.
So you can have a standard developer folder
that's a production version on your machine.
And then if you want to install a beta of a future developer
version for a future SDK, you can install that side by side,
and then alternate between one and another.
So you have the best of both worlds.
You can develop production code with a
production environment with production compilers,
or you can use our experimental
stuff for developing for a new OS.
Now let's start with working with Xcode.
The basic unit of Xcode you'll be
working with is the Xcode Project.
Now project is the container that holds
all of the stuff you need to develop.
First thing is your source code files.
You're going to be writing source code
in text files, storing them on disk,
and accessing them through the project file.
There are also user interface files.
They are usually called .xib or .nib or XIB or NIB files.
You'll be editing those in Interface Builder.
The third is a structure called a target.
A target is a set of rules and instructions
for how to build a piece of software,
an application, a library, something like that.
The target is probably where you're going to be
spending most of your time doing project configuration,
setting up settings and fine tuning things.
And finally, there's the project file itself.
A project can hold a lot of other things
than just resources in your interface files.
You can configure your project to hold documentation,
additional information, you set up your project
for source code management, you share your project
with other people; your project holds information
about your screen layout in certain preferences.
So each of these elements of your project has function.
Now the project file-- we call it a project
file, but it's actually a directory.
It has a lot of files inside that you'll
never-- or rarely see, it is a directory.
But there's a lot of stuff that's stored in it and is
stored in a .pdx proj file inside that project wrapper.
The main thing is that the project holds references to
all of the source code that is in your project folder.
It has groups; yellow folders that organize those.
So you can organize those arbitrarily.
So no matter how your source code is laid
out on disk, you can organize it logically
and conceptually inside the project window
using the yellow folders called Groups.
It's got targets which are the organizing
principles for building build products,
and we're going to use the term build product a lot.
A build product is what you're trying to create--
an application, a library, something like that.
It has executables.
Executables are how you launch your build
product, launch it as a Macintosh application,
launch it in the iPhone simulator,
launch it on an iPhone device.
And executable is instructions for how to run software.
And then finally, all of your user settings, your bookmarks
and history for going back and forth and finding stuff
in your project, the window layout, if you like big
windows, small windows, tall windows, narrow windows.
The last way you had your project set
up, that is stored on a per user basis.
So if you share a project with other people, your
settings are yours, their settings are theirs.
Breakpoints for debugging, when you set a breakpoint,
other developers will not hit that breakpoint for you.
That's very convenient if you're working in a group
setting, and then other user specific configuration.
Now, people will always say you're working with an
Xcode project, but the most crucial thing to remember is
that the vast majority of the time you're working
in Xcode, you're focused on a single target.
A target again is a set of instructions
for building one build product.
One target, one build product, remember that.
A target references some, maybe
all the files in the project.
But if you have multiple targets in your project,
they can reference different sets or source files.
A target contains build phases.
Build phases are the steps that Xcode goes
through that turn your source into a product,
and build rules determine how Xcode does that, how
it compiles source files, how it processes NIB files.
And then for each build phase, a set of
build settings applies to that phase.
These are parameters that change
the way that that build phase works.
So when we go into the demo, you're going to see how
you use build settings to affect how code is built.
>> You have groups of build settings called configurations.
And so, you can have a debug configuration which is
all of your settings for building code for debugging,
then your release configuration is all your
build settings for building code for production.
Now, targets, you can have multiple
targets to build different things,
and you can also have these things called
aggregate targets that build other targets.
So if you have a series of iPhone applications, or if you
have a Mac application that has both the main application
and then an auxiliary application, or a shared
library that is used in multiple applications,
you can have multiple targets in one project,
and then an overall aggregate target
that simply builds them all in sequence.
So, now it's time for our first demo, I'd like to bring
Rick Ballard up from the Xcode team to show you the basics
of how to start with building an Xcode project.
Rick?
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you.
Thanks, Chris.
I'm going to take you through creating a new project
and then briefly step through looking at each
of the things that Chris just talked about in Xcode.
So, can we go to the demo machine please?
[ Pause ]
>> Great. Sorry about that.
So, we're going to start out by finding
Xcode at the root of our disk here.
[ Pause ]
>> And you notice when I launch Xcode, the
first thing that comes up is our welcome screen.
Xcode's welcome screen provides you a
convenient jumping off point to get started,
either by creating your first new project or further
new projects, diving in to the tutorials and sample code
that we provide, or exploring resources
that we have on developer.apple.com.
On the right hand side, you notice that we provide a list
of the recent projects that you've been working with
This makes it easy when you launch Xcode to jump
right back in to what you were working on last.
If you ever close this window and want to get back
to it, you can find the Welcome to Xcode screen
in Xcode's Help menu, but all of the functionality
here is also available in Xcode's menus
such as new project, or finding your recent projects.
We're going to start out here by creating a new
project, and this brings up the new project assistant.
Xcode's new project assistant provides
a wealth of different types of projects
to get you started quickly no matter what you want to build.
The first decision that you make in a new project assistant
is the overall type of product that you're going to build.
Now, none of the decisions that
you make here are irrevocable.
If you change your mind about what you're building
later, you can edit your project, edit your settings,
add new targets, to make whatever you want to make.
But by making the appropriate decision now, you
let us start you off with the right kind of target,
the most appropriate build settings, and some sample
code to help make it easy to get started quickly.
On the Mac OS X side, you'll see that we
provide several different types of applications,
different types of frameworks and libraries, and a number
of different types of plug-ins, both for applications
and kernel extensions for the system, and things like that.
On the iPhone side, all applications use Cocoa Touch, but
we give you a choice about the category of application
that you're going to create, allowing us to
start you off with some appropriate sample code.
The icon also supports a static library type.
So if you want to share code among multiple iPhone
projects, you can use this to build into a static library,
it gets built into every iPhone
application that wants to use it.
You notice when you select a template, that we
provided a few options such as whether or not you want
to start using Core Data, or a document-based architecture.
Again, none of these decisions are irrevocable.
But we'll start you out with a project already
set up to use these options if you want.
We're going to start out today by creating a
very simple utility application for the iPhone,
and I can choose where to put it and what to name it.
So I'm going to call this "next big thing".
Don't worry too much about what you want to
name it now, because we now make it really easy
to rename not just your project, but the target that's
associated with it, build settings that go off it,
and any other interface-related functionality
that might use the name that you've chosen here.
So now we've got a project window up, and you can see in
the left hand side, I've got the structure of the project
that Chris described to you, and in the right hand side,
I've got a detailed view of what I've got selected.
I can flip through here and take a look at my source files,
which I'll automatically open up in the embedded editor
when I select them, or which I can double-click to open
up in a separate editor if I prefer to work that way.
I've got resource files, in this case, this iPhone template
comes with 3 different XIB files that comes to my interface.
To edit these, I could go launch Interface
Builder or just double-click in here,
and it will bring up Interface Builder for me.
And you'll see, this is part of my
interface, the objects of my interface,
and the interface for adding new objects to it and so forth.
I've also got some references to frameworks in this project.
These files here, like UIKit.framework is a reference
to UIKit on my disk, because my project happens to use
that and a couple other frameworks to build.
In the targets group, you can see that this project
came with one target, "the next big thing" target.
That target produces the product that I'm going to run here.
And I can just close it to take a look at the
different build phases and their contents.
Like here is the phase where the
target compiles the source files,
and you can see that it's got 6 different source
files that it's going to compile in this phase.
Each of these objects here, whether a target or a project
or even my file references also have some
additional settings you can drill down into
by clicking the Get Info button in the
toolbar or using Get Info in the File menu.
You see that I have executables here, this is where we store
settings that you want to use when running, like arguments
and environment variables to the launch, and there
are a couple of other useful groups down here.
Like if I'm setup to use source control,
I'll have my source control status available.
Or I've got some smart groups which I can modify or
define myself in order to filter down to a specific set
of files that I might want to look at frequently.
Finally, you'll notice that the last
yellow group up here is my products group.
This contains references to all the products
built by all the targets in my project.
So you'll notice that there's a reference to "the next
big thing" application which is what this target builds.
It's in red because the file doesn't exist
on disk yet, and it's telling me that.
Why doesn't it exist?
Well, I haven't built it yet.
So at this point, I'm going to go ahead and build
and run this project, and in the status bar,
it will show me my build status zip by quickly,
and then launch this application in the simulator.
And you see, I've got my application up and running here,
and the file reference is now black,
showing me that it does exist on disk.
If I want, I can ask Xcode to actually show
me what it just built by right-clicking on it.
Well, there's a Reveal in Finder command which--
here we go, I used a different keyboard mapping.
I can Reveal in Finder and see the
application that I just built, and it's DCIM,
which really iPhone developers is very useful to hang on to.
And I've just got a project that I built.
This is how easy it is to get started in
Xcode, and get up and running quickly.
Let's dive in a bit deeper now into how you actually
go about building your project and how the build works.
Chris?
>> Now, we'll come back to building and editing the project
itself in a little while, but we're going to spend some time
on editing the source code because even though
it's 2009, we as programmers still write most
of our applications by typing characters into a text editor.
And I know that text editing is a deeply personal issue
with very, very many programmers, sometimes weirdly so.
And while Xcode-- we've set up the defaults for the text
editing behavior to be a great experience for most people.
Everybody has their personal preferences,
and Xcode is highly configurable to adapt
to the way you like to work with program text.
We have syntax coloring, so you can choose whether
you like black on white text, white on black text,
bold colors to distinguish the different
syntactic parts of your program or muted colors.
You can choose different syntax colorings according to
your own working style or create your own syntax coloring,
use different fonts and sizes and even styles.
I happen to like my comments in swishy italics because
it gives that certain je ne sais quoi to my source code.
[Laughter] Indentation is a big issue.
Sometimes you have to use an indentation
style that fits in with your group,
sometimes you prefer to have 4 spaces or 8 spaces.
Xcode has a very flexible indentation system, you
can use spaces or tabs or a combination of both,
and you can reinvent texts semantically on the fly.
>> Some people think wrapping is a complete anathema,
some people think wrapping is a
fundamental part of the editing experience.
You can have either or both if
you like on a file by file basis.
Some people like to see the majority of their editor showing
nothing but text, some people like to see line numbers
and even column positions in order to get a numerical guide.
They remember things by line number.
You can see the line numbers in the gutter.
You can see the column position in the
navigation bar at the top of your text editor.
All of these are very easily controllable
in the View menu in Xcode.
We have another feature that is
rarely seen in other editors.
It's called Code Focus.
Xcode knows semantically the nesting level of
your code even if the indentation is incorrect.
We've got a very handy feature called Code Focus that shows
you in a highlighted form, it gradually dims back things
that are further and further out of scope.
So if you have-- and this is especially helpful if you have
a long switch statement with a lot of cases and you happen
to have forgotten the closing brace or a colon somewhere--
you can very easily see the compilerized view of your
program and see that the indentation doesn't happen
to match the syntax, and where your case may be
following through when you didn't intend it to.
You can even have that follow you as you type so it only
highlights the thing that you're working on right now.
Now the second part of working with the
editor is not just looking at your text,
but it's navigating around the different source files,
and Xcode has a number of different ways to move you
from one place in the code to another
place in the code and back very rapidly.
The navigation bar is the key thing we will be using.
You can use it to move from file to file, you can use it
to move back and forward and when you're editing position
in the current file as well as across multiple files, and
you can use the function pop-up right in the middle up there
with the blue M to navigate to any function or method
in your code very-- in your current file very quickly.
Also, a number of other controls on the far right
side navigate up and down the class hierarchy
of the current class, jump directly to the header
file for this source file, or jump to any header file
that this source file includes directly with the
pop-ups on the right side of the navigation bar.
There's a command called Open Quickly
which is incredibly useful.
You can use it to directly jump to any file or symbol in
your project or in anything that the header files include.
Just type command-shift-d brings up the Open Quickly box,
type the prefix string of what you're looking
for, press return, you're there instantly.
If you're looking at a symbol in source file and you
want to know where it's defined, you Command-double-click
that symbol and it jumps directly
there and shows you what it is,
then you can hit the back arrow
and go back to where you were.
There's also a pretty functional class browser which
shows you the entire class hierarchy of your application
and all of the frameworks that it includes so that
you can navigate up and down class hierarchies.
Finally, entering text is laborious, especially with
all of the long variable names that Xcode view--
that the Cocoa and Cocoa Touch Frameworks use,
capitalization which is crucial in the name of Xcode itself
as well as in the rest of the C language.
Code Sense code completion really helps you
get accurate completion and also browsing
of realistic and correct options as you type.
You saw little of the code completion
yesterday in the keynote.
We're going to have a better demo of code
completion coming up in just a few minutes.
The most important thing is you can get that code
completion from the menus but you almost never will.
Once you learn command-period for complete now--
control-period for complete now, control-comma for popping
up the completion list, and control-/
to move from one placeholder to another.
Once you get those memorized in your fingertips, you
will never leave the keyboard to type long passages
of source code and have Xcode do most of the typing for you.
It's really, really fast.
Then another feature which is very useful when
you're reworking code is Edit All in Scope.
You select a variable name, you choose Edit All in Scope,
and it will find all the instances of that variable name
in the scope of the method that you're using and it will
allow you to mass edit those, and that's a very easy way
to rename an instance variable, rename
a locale very quickly and reliably.
Xcode also supports all the normal things you'd expect
to find in an IDE, Single File Find and Replace,
as well as Project Wide Find and Replace that can
work either on plain text, regular expressions,
finding definition sites or finding the uses
of-- all uses of any symbol in your project.
There are refactorings for Objective-C that
allow you to rename a method globally across--
or a class or a method globally across your source
code, hoist a method call up into a super class,
or refactor certain methods in
the class down into a sub-class.
You select the identifier you want
and you choose refactoring
from the Refactor menu-- Refactor from Edit menu.
There will be demos on that later on this week.
But most importantly, if you're beginners and if you're
in the beginning session, you probably are, getting help,
and finding out what you need to write is probably going
to be the most useful thing to you when using Xcode.
The developer documentation window is going to be
the center of your existence for quite a while.
It has the complete developer documentation on all of the
Cocoa and Cocoa Touch APIs, it has all of the user guides
for using Xcode, and it has all the other information
about Mac OS X that you need to know in order
to write effective Mac OS X and iPhone applications.
If you get to this from the Help menu, there's some other
useful things in the Help menu, the Xcode Help and Welcome
to Xcode as Rick demonstrated, the release notes which
as you move from version of Xcode to version of Xcode,
you can see what's new and what's changed.
The Search window in the Help menu not only searches the
Xcode documentation, but also searches all of Xcode's menu.
So if you're looking for a function like, Where do I
re-indent, you just type re-indent into the Search menu
and it will jump you directly to
the menu item that does that.
So another thing that will really be useful for you as you
code, because the documentation window is big and it kind
of takes up your whole screen, but we have a Quick
Help window that is small, that you can use to float
above your code, and it will show you a little synopsis
of each function and API or method that you're using,
and it will give you links directly to the
documentation for that if you want to read further,
or the header file in which it's defined.
If you want to see relatives of it or
what else is going on or see other things.
Also it has links directly to sample
code that shows how that API is used.
Quick Help is extremely useful while
you're coding, just to see what's going
on to learn more about the APIs you're using.
So now, I'd like to bring up Brent Shank from our Developer
Tools Documentation Group to take you through the basics
of text editing and using documentation in Xcode.
>> OK, I'm on the [inaudible] here.
Great. So to do that, we can launch Xcode, and I'm going
to choose developer documentation from the Help menu,
this will get me to the documentation window.
And I'm going to search for an interesting sample
code project, something that uses an NSBezier path,
so we draw something pretty and maybe an affine transform.
So you can see how fast it is to
search all of the Apple documentation.
You get instant results back.
All right, so I see a lot of results here, let's choose
squiggles, that's one of my favorite sample code projects,
and all you need to do to get this going
in Xcode is click the zip file link.
Xcode asks you where you want to put it on your system,
you click Choose, and Xcode opens it up for you.
Let's build a run and see what this does.
So that built really fast.
I'll maximize the window there.
And as I click the mouse and move around, I can draw
pretty lines, and as I move the slider down here,
they get rotated around the center of the
view and multiply, which is pretty cool.
Well, to learn a little bit about Cocoa, I
want to modify this sample and in addition
to drawing the lines, I want to draw some text.
So we have to learn a few things.
First thing we have to learn is how
this application is doing its drawing.
Well, to figure that out, let's do a project-wide find.
We're going to press command-shift-f
to bring up the project find panel,
and I'm going to look for-- search for the word draw.
Hopefully that will lead me to the right place,
but I want to search everything in the project.
OK, so as you can see, we have a lot of hits
here, some things in comments and in the read-me.
I want to narrow down my search and just
look for APIs that are defined in my project.
So I can do that by selecting the definition
search from this menu on Quick Find.
And here it is, I have one method,
the instance method called drawRect.
That looks like a good place to start.
I think that's where this application does the drawing.
>> So notice you can view this first file edit right
from the embedded editor in the project find window,
or if you're like me and you prefer to have a separate
editor window, all you need to do is double-click the result
and that will open up from the separate editor.
So, as Chris said, text editing is a very personal thing.
So let's get personal for a minute.
Let's go to Xcode's preferences and let's
check out the fonts and colors preference.
This is where you can set all your preferences for the
font that is used in the editor, the colors that we used
for syntax coloring, the size of the font and everything.
I'm using the presentation font right
now, so everyone in the room can see it.
But Xcode comes with a number of
pre-built themes that you can use.
You can create your own themes.
You can copy any of these default themes
and customize it just the way you want.
And let's switch back to the presentation theme.
If I'd select the text editing preference, this lets
you customize the controls that are shown in the editor.
I'm going to turn a few things on here.
I really like to see line numbers and column position,
and for some reason, I really like the page guide.
Then we click Apply and get a preview of
that, and you can see in the text editor,
I now see line numbers and the page guide.
So when you first are getting to know Xcode, take
a while, launch the preferences, check them out,
you can customize the editor just about any way you want to.
So, let's go back to the source file here.
One of my favorite features of the text editor
is the ability to temporarily get rid of code
or parts of this source file that I'm
not concerned about at the moment.
So for example in this case is
this long copyright statement.
If you move the mouse over to the code folding ribbon next
to the line number column, all I need to do is click it
and it temporarily goes away, and that's persisted if you
close this file and reopen it, and even if you quit Xcode.
So it's a great way to focus in on
just the task at hand and in this case,
it's learning what this drawRect method is doing.
To please the demo gods, I'm going to open that up again.
So let's see what drawRect is dong.
It's a drawing gradient that's set up earlier in a class.
It's using this NSAffineTransform to rotate the view,
and then a couple of 4 loops here are
responsible for drawing each of the squiggles.
So I think I can intervene here, add some code and
in addition to drawing the lines, draw some text.
First thing I need to do is learn how to layout text.
Well, let's go back to the documentation window,
figure out how to do that, laying out text.
I can type.
That sounds like a good phrase.
Sometimes when you're searching for
phrases in the documentation window,
it helps to change the match type to an exact match.
So when I do that, first result, laying
out text along an arbitrary path,
that looks like exactly what I was looking for.
So this is a great article in the
text layout programming guide.
It tells me that if I set up the Cocoa Text
System, I can get this layout manager object.
And once I have a layout manager,
I can draw a text anywhere.
So this is great.
Let me copy some of this code over here.
This looks like a good one to copy
also, and we'll also copy that one.
OK, so imagine that all that code was pasted in haphazardly.
So looking at the code that was pasted
in here, I want to indent it to be clean.
And I could go and do that manually, but I know Xcode
has a function for doing that, just not sure where it is.
Well as Chris said, you can use the
Help menu to find menu items in Xcode.
So bring up the Help menu and in the
search field, we can type indent,
and you can see that Xcode finds that menu item for me.
It's buried somewhere in the Edit menu.
So there are lots of little things like this in Xcode.
They can be hard to find especially if you're getting
used to Xcode, use the search in the Help menu
and you'll find all of these hidden gems.
OK, let's change the string that
we're actually going to draw here.
Great. So the next thing I need to do is
use variable names that are kind of generic.
I like to make them a little more interesting.
We notice I have a bunch of instances of layout
manager, and I could change them all individually,
but that's kind of a pain, be really great
if Xcode could help me out with that.
So to do that, I just need to select one of the
variable names and you see this little menu,
this little arrow pops up next to it, and
I click down, I get a contextual menu.
Edit All in Scope is the first item.
You notice when I select that, all of the instances
of that variable in this scope are selected.
And as I start typing, they all update.
I can press up or down arrow to accept that.
I can also activate Edit All in Scope
from the keyboard command-control-t.
So if you're a keyboard person, you don't
have to leave the home ground to do that.
And I'll press the down arrow and there we go.
Xcode has a lot of powerful batch
editing features like this in the editor.
So the next thing I need to do is, I have this
layout manager and I know it can draw a text for me,
I just don't know what the name of that API is.
Well, I could go and read the class reference for the
layout manager, or I could just let Xcode do it for me.
So I'll start typing in a variable name
and you notice as I type some characters,
Xcode is suggesting what it thinks is the
best possible choice for that variable.
And I just need to control-period to accept that one,
and I'm going to type a few characters
here, and What's Xcode doing here?
Well, it's pretty smart.
It knows all of the methods that
are defined on NSLayout Manager.
And because I've started an Objective-C message to that,
it's helpfully suggesting things
that I could call on that object.
And as I cycle through the list
here, I see a bunch of good options.
Problem is I'm not exactly sure which one of these I want.
Well fortunately, Xcode can help you with that too.
From the Help menu, I'm going to select Quick Help.
Quick Help, as you saw yesterday in the State of the Union,
is a small panel that brings the API
documentation right into the source code editor.
So you don't have to leave your context,
you don't have to bring up the DOC window.
It brings the essential information
to you right in the editor.
I can continue cycling through the code completion
list and you notice as I do that, Quick Help updates,
it gives me an abstract, the declaration
and some pointers to other documents
and sample code projects that are applicable to this symbol.
It even works with the code completion list.
I can press control-comma to bring that up.
And as I cycle through these, it looks
like I found what I'm looking for,
a drag list for glyph range or point.
I can hit Tab to select that, and
now I need to pass in a range.
Fortunately, I pasted that above.
And now, for the second argument, I need to add a point.
And again, as I complete that, Quick Help helps me
understand which, what kind of argument this is.
So I need an NSPoint.
I'm pretty sure an NSBezier path will give me that.
But to be sure, I want to go back to the documentation.
I can command-option-double-click on that
symbol, and you notice I have a bunch
of documentation sets here I installed on my system.
I'm going to switch to the Snow Leopard
DOC set, and look at NSBezier path,
look in the summary of the class reference here.
And under the query paths task, there's
a current point method, I click on that,
and that will return an NSPoint which is what I need.
So this is good news.
I'll go back to the code editor here and again, I'll just
start typing the NSBezier path object and Xcode is saving me
so many keystrokes here, this is really fabulous.
So, let's build and run and see what happens.
All right.
Well, something is happening there but the
text is kind of dark, I can't really read it.
Again, let's go back to Xcode and
add a little bit more code.
I want to change the font color and
the size of the text that's drawn.
Again, there's a lot of API in
the text in Cocoa for doing this.
I don't remember what it is, but I know I have this text
storage object and that's just a mutable attributed string,
so I can add all kinds of attributes to it.
Add attribute, there's one for adding multiple
attributes at a time or one at a time.
So again, Xcode is being really helpful.
In this case, let's add foreground color
and I think each squiggle has a color.
Again, Xcode knows color property on squiggles and
completes that for me, and the range I want to use.
Again, I can hit Tab to go to the next code sense
completion placeholder, and the range I'm going to pass in.
Someone doesn't have wrapping turned on.
What were you saying, Chris, about this being personal?
Now, I can't get any work done.
OK, we'll do that, and I want to add
one more, text storage and attribute.
Let's add a font and let's add consistent
font, let's make it really large, make range.
I could just copy and paste that, but it's good.
So fast, in completing these things, I don't need to.
OK, so that looks good.
Let's build and run, see if I typed everything correctly.
And now as I type-- as I move the
mouse around, we're drawing text.
And the coolest part is when we rotate this,
we're now drawing text anyway we want to.
So this is a pretty advanced Cocoa Text System
task, but Xcode made it pretty easy to learn it
So the combination of Quick Help and the DOC window and
code completion makes it really easy and fast to get up
and running with Xcode and Cocoa and Cocoa Touch APIs.
Back to you, Chris.
>> OK. So you've seen the basics of creating a project,
and you've seen the basics of editing text and getting help
to figure out what you want to
put in your project source files.
Now, we're going to go into building
and testing your project.
>> Now, building is the process of compiling all
your sources and assembling all of the resources
into an executable that Mac OS X
or the iPhone OS can actually run.
When you build, you have 2 choices.
One is that you can use our dedicated build results
window which is tuned to the task of building
and getting build results and figuring out what's going
on in the build, or as you saw in the keynote yesterday,
you can get most of the build results right
in your editor with our inline message bubbles
for errors, warnings, and static analysis results.
You can even go back and forth between the two
It's pretty easy to do.
The build process consists of taking
the list of build phases in your target,
and processing every file in the build phase one by one.
First, we take all of your resources, your strings,
your graphics, your NIB and XIB files and copying them
into where they belong in the final build product.
Second is, we take all of your sources and compile them and
they include their header files in order to be compiled.
Now, both of these processes are fairly complex.
The compiler one even a little more so.
Under the covers, what Xcode is doing is, it's
actually invoking the kind of command line tools
like the GCC compiler that you would see
executed from the makefile at the command line.
In fact, when you're looking in the Xcode build results
window, you'll see a little icon over on the right edge,
which if you click it, shows you exactly what's going on.
This is the exact command line that if you copy and paste
it into the terminal and execute it, will compile that file
and create the .0 executable file
that corresponds to that source file.
Xcode is a thick, not a thin, a thick veneer on top of
the low level compilation tools that you're familiar
with if you come from the Linux or makefile tradition, and
you can see exactly what Xcode is doing under the covers
by looking at the individual build transcript to that step.
You can even, by using control-click in the build
results window, you can get the full transcript
to see the whole process of what Xcode is doing.
And then finally, Xcode links your individual object files
from the individual source files with other static libraries
and with the dynamic frameworks, in order to create the
binary that goes into your executable that's actually ran.
Now there are a couple of tasks that are very, very
common in configuring your target to build properly,
and you get at almost all of the things you want
to do on your target by choosing Edit Active Target
from the Project menu, and you see the target inspector.
In the general pane of the target inspector,
the first 2 things you're going to do.
First is if you have one target that depends on another,
if you have an application that needs to have a static
or dynamic library built first, or if you have an
aggregate target where you want to say build this target
and then that target and that target,
you use the target dependencies panel
in the general pane of the target inspector.
There's a little Plus button on it, you click the
Plus button and you just add other targets to it.
Whenever you build that target, it
will build the other targets first.
It's the basic way you set up dependencies in Xcode.
The second thing is that if your source
code uses a header file in the framework,
you're going to need to link with that framework.
Now normally, you just drag and drop the
framework on to your target and that works.
But if you want to browse the frameworks and see
what else is available and what you need to add,
or if you want to go get a static library
from somewhere, you use the linked libraries
and framework pane in the general inspector.
Again, you press the Plus button at the
bottom, a sheet drops down and shows you all
of the frameworks and libraries that are available to you.
You pick one, and it goes into the list.
These are some very common tasks in managing
your target for what targets it depends on
and what frameworks and linked libraries it depends on.
Now I mentioned earlier that build settings are the
parameters that control how each build phase works.
You're going to be spending a fair amount of
time changing build settings in your project.
Build settings are specific values that are passed
to each tool as it executes each build phase.
And they're organized into configurations.
The basic configuration you'll get with
almost every Xcode project is a set
of debug build settings, and a
set of release build settings.
The debug build settings build an optimized version
usually for a single architecture for build speed
that makes it very easy to debug and figure
out what's going wrong with your code,
but doesn't provide the best user
experience for the end code.
The release configuration is optimized, it
doesn't have as much debugger information in it,
the code runs a lot faster, and it's packaged for delivery.
So you pick one or the other, you can set
one thing common across all configurations,
like your name is probably going to
be common across all configurations.
And you can set things that are separate for
each configuration like the optimization level.
Build settings are arranged into a hierarchy.
Most of the time, you'll want to work
with build settings at the target level.
And you do that by going to the
Project menu, Edit Active Target,
and then clicking the Build tab in the target inspector.
But sometimes, you may want to set a build
setting that applies to all of your targets.
For example, if you want one optimization
level across all targets,
you can set that at a higher level, at the project level.
Here's the hierarchy in action.
Xcode has certain defaults for every build setting that
you get, and so there are some things that are predefined
by Xcode and a lot of things that are just left loose.
When you create a project, some build settings are
created in that project that will apply to all targets
in that project unless they're overridden.
You can set very common things here if you happen to like
a certain style of warnings for example in the compiler.
Set it at the project level, it will
apply to everything in that project.
If you want to-- if you're building a
certain style of code, you set it there.
And then finally, on a per-target basis, you can set things
that are characteristic of or specific for that target.
So for example your-- the product name, what you're
building should really be set at the target level.
Each level inherits from the previous
level and overrides it.
If you know object oriented programming,
this should be a very, very familiar concept.
The number one user error with Xcode is-- I set
this build setting and it didn't take effect.
Well, where did you set it?
I don't know.
They usually set it at the project level, but they have
another setting at the target level that's overriding it.
So always work from the bottom upward, from the target
to the project level when you want to set those settings.
Certain tasks you do with build settings.
There are hundreds of build settings.
There are build settings for each individual
warning you can get out of the compiler.
There are obscure build settings for certain
things you want to do with the linker.
There are build settings for packaging.
But really, there are only about 5 build
settings that you're going to be using
on a routine basis as a beginner Xcode programmer.
The first is the name of what you're building.
When you create a new project, this is
set by default to the name of the project.
But remember, the project is not the build product.
You can change the name of what you're building at
any time without ever touching your project name.
You go to the target, you look for the
product name build setting and you change it
and that changes the name of the
application you're building.
It's that easy.
If you're including code from the outside, you'll need to
tell Xcode where to find the header files for that code.
So Header Search Paths are a pretty common thing to change.
Once again, you'll usually change this at the target
level, but you could change this at the project level
if you have a bunch of targets that all refer
to the same external library for example.
If you-- when Xcode builds its
intermediates and it builds its build product,
it puts them in something called a build folder.
By default, that build folder is located next
to your project file in your project folder.
Some people want to put it on a scratch disk, some
people want to put it elsewhere consolidated in one place
so that multiple projects can share their results.
You can set the build products path in your build settings.
You'll usually do that on a project level so
that all of the targets go in the same place.
The next two are really important.
I'm going to be spending a little time on them.
This is the API, the SDK and the API for your application.
When you write code, you have to choose
the model that you're writing for.
You have to choose what operating system and what
version of the operating system you're writing it for.
You choose an SDK, a software development kit, and that
has all of the APIs you're going to be coding against.
It has all of the classes and all of their methods.
But that doesn't lock you into running on that.
You're going to run on that operating
system and all later ones of course.
But also, you can make your code run on
earlier versions of the operating system
by setting a separate build setting
called deployment target.
And let me show you how those work.
Deployment target in SDK lets you trade
off the features your application uses
against the number of users you're going to reach.
Because when Apple releases an operating system,
it has certain features, and then we upgrade it
and it has more features, like in
iPhone OS 2.2 or in Mac OS X 10.5.
And then another version comes on and it has still
more features, like in iPhone OS 3.0 or Snow Leopard.
>> The problem is the newer OSs have fewer users.
And if you lock yourself into a later OS, you're
restricting yourself to a smaller number of users.
You'd rather reach the larger number of users
on the earlier systems even if that means
that they won't get the features
of the newer operating system.
We have 2 controls that help you do this.
First is you set the deployment target for the earliest
version of the operating system you want to run on,
like Xcode-- like Mac OS X 10.5 or iPhone OS 2.2.
That sets a baseline.
Your code won't run earlier than that, you may cut off some
customers, but it sets a baseline for your functionality
and you can code with confidence against that.
But then you set the SDK for the highest version of
the operating system whose features you want to use.
Now, if you set them to be the same
thing, if the deployment target
in the base says you cater the same thing,
then you're golden, that's pretty easy.
You get all of the features of that operating
system, and you redraw all of the customers
of that operating system in later, that's pretty easy.
But if you want something that has a little more
reach and some more features, you move the bases--
you move the SDK and the deployment target up.
So if you want to write a Snow Leopard only application,
or if you want to outride an iPhone OS 3.0
only application, you move both in tandem, OK?
Now, the next thing takes work.
If you set the deployment part target back
earlier, I guess this way because I'm mirrored.
You get to run on earlier versions of the operating
system, but you have to do a little more work.
Every time you call a new feature, you have to test
that feature to make sure it exists at runtime.
So you set your deployment target for like iPhone OS 2.2
or Mac OS 10.5, even with your SDK at a higher level,
and you get more features but you
have to work to access those features.
Similarly, you can set it all the way back to say, Mac OS
X 10.4, iPhone OS 2.1 or 2.0, you get the maximum number
of customers, but you have to do the maximum work to
make sure that every time you use one of the features
in a later version of the operating
system, that it's available.
These 2 controls are very important for
using new features and new operating systems,
and reaching the maximum customers you want.
Now with all of these controls, with all of these targets
and configurations, and SDKs and the multiple architectures,
you have to control what you want
to build at any given time.
Now, when you press the Build button,
you're only building one thing.
When you click the Build button, you build one thing.
And in a sample demo product, it's pretty simple.
You have an application.
Do you have one target in your project, and there is
one configuration of it, like the debug configuration.
But as time goes on, you may add different targets
and maybe an aggregate target to build them all.
You use the active target pop-up to
control which target you're going to build.
Now, that's the debug configuration.
You may also have a release configuration.
When you want to build your product and distribute
it, you choose the release configuration.
That gives you another set of options
and builds another set of executables.
So you can build any target for any configuration just
by picking from active target and active configuration.
Now, for most of our platforms for Mac OS X,
you have a choice of architectures to build for.
For building debug, we generally build the architecture
for the machine you're running on,
just one because it's pretty easy.
But you want to deploy for people
who have multiple architectures.
So, and if you're building for 10.5 for example,
you probably want to deploy PowerPC architecture
and i386 architecture, and x86-64 architecture,
and you may not want to test those one by one.
So we can use the active architecture
pop-up to pick along that access.
So the combination of active target, active
configuration, active architecture picks one
of these massive grid to build at a time.
And you pick which one you want
to build and run at that time.
Now, there's an additional control called Active SDK,
and that you can use in different
ways for iPhone than for Mac OS X.
The Active SDK overrides the base
SDK setting in your target.
So if you're set up to work for the iPhone 3.0 device,
that's what your code is written
for, that's what the base SDK is.
But suppose you're not ready to deploy to the device yet,
you just want to debug and want to debug in the simulator.
You change the Active SDK to the iPhone simulator SDK
and then that overrides the SDK value
and lets you run in the simulator.
Similarly, if you have a Leopard application,
you want to build it and you want to test it
with the Snow Leopard APIs just to see how it builds
without having to commit to changing your project for that,
then you choose Mac OS 10.6 SDK from the pop-up menu.
These active menu-- active pop-ups, in the overview
pop-up is the most common place to see them.
Let you-- give you fine grained control
over what you build at any given time.
Once you build, you need to test.
There are three ways to test.
You can test before you run.
You can test during your run.
And you can test after you ran.
Static analysis, you saw yesterday, is a
great way to test while you're building
to have the compiler tell you the
logical problems it sees in your code.
Unit tests allow you to test while you're building, then
debugging our various-- debugging your debug configuration,
debugging release configurations, are
ways to test dynamically as you deploy,
and then evaluating your application
afterwards with instruments.
You'll see more of that later on in the week.
Static analysis is a great way to see your code flow
and to see logical errors and memory leaks in your code.
Unit tests are additional methods, additional software
you write in the course of writing your project that run
through code while you're building to
test the code you've actually built.
And your build will fail if your unit tests fail.
It's a great way to verify that
code remains stable over time.
If you change some code and the unit test
fails, you know you changed that code wrong.
And then debugging, we have a full interactive debugger
which shows you call stacks, it shows calling parameters,
it shows you the value of variables as you step through,
step-in to step-over, kinds of things we're used
to if you've debugged C-based languages before.
I want to bring up Rick Ballard again to walk
through a demo of building and testing your code.
>> Thanks Chris.
So I'm going to step you through building and
looking at build results, handling build errors,
debugging a simple problem and some code,
and writing some unit tests for that problem.
I want to start out with a simple demo
project here which also uses Bezier paths.
And let's say that I've been working on this and I
built a little view that I'm going to use in this app
to display different types of Bezier paths.
I've just finished writing my drawRect
method, is where I left off.
And now I want to see if the code
that I just wrote works as I expected.
Well, I can go here and open up the build results window.
And this is going to show me in
detail what happens when I build.
So as you see, when I press Build, you'll
see it goes through each of the steps
in the build process until it gets to the results.
Here it shows me that I've a couple syntax errors.
Up here, you see each of the issues
of this did and it will highlight them
in the source code where the error occurs for me.
You can also see that I have some controls here.
If I want to see more information, I
can view all the steps in my build.
I like to leave it on issues only most of the
time because that's usually what you care about.
And I can change how I want to view
each of the items that show up here.
So these are pretty easy to fix, just
got a typo and a missing semicolon.
And if I rebuild, you'll see that
I know longer have any issues.
I don't know if you caught there.
It looked like I had a warning in
another source file a second ago.
But because I didn't edit that source file this
time around, it didn't bother recompiling it.
And since it didn't bother recompiling
it, it didn't report the warning I get.
Now in a lot of places, you have to remember these things.
But in Xcode, we make it really easy to go back
and find information about older build results
that might still be relevant by
clicking on the All Results tab.
And here you can see even though I didn't just compile this,
it'll show me the results that include this random warning
and the source file that I'm not using yet.
So now I've got this working, I can go ahead
and build and run and bring up my demo app
and you can see I can change this zoom and the angle, and
switch between a few different types of Bezier curves.
Now here, when I click in the line
path, you notice that nothing happens,
this because I've got a bug in my code here.
So let's go ahead and try and figure where that bug is.
I'm going to go ahead and open
up my source file and scroll down
or actually use the function pop-up
to jump right to my drawRect method.
Well, that's what's responsible for drawings.
So it seems like a pretty good place to
start trying to track down the problem.
I'm just going to put a breakpoint near the
beginning of the method by clicking in the gutter.
Make sure I'll put it one further down.
And I'm going to go ahead and-- you
see that where it used to say "build
and go" in the toolbar, it now says "build and debug."
Because when I put a breakpoint in my
project, it automatically turned debugging on.
If I want to switch back and not use breakpoints, I
can turn them off, but this is what I want right now.
>> So I'm going to go ahead and hit Build and Debug.
Now you notice, it's trying to draw right of the bat.
So it's in my breakpoint already.
And there's a new toolbar that showed up at the up
of my editor that includes some debugging controls.
It lets me see the different threads, what my call stack
is, and it's got stepping controls and things like that.
Now one thing I can do if I want, is press this
button to jump to a more traditional debugger window.
This is what you saw on the slide and this
also shows you your call stack as well
as a variable browser so you can look and see what's what.
But most of the time, you don't even need that.
We have this thing called data tips, which means I can
hover my mouse over any of these variables that are in scope
and it will pop up a tip and show me some details about it.
Here it shows me that this Rect-- it will
summarize its origin and bounds or I can draw them
and look at each of these points in detail.
Or what I really want to do here,
I think, is skip to the end
where I'm placing another breakpoint here,
I'm going to hit the Continue button.
And let's take a look at this Bezier
path that I should have.
Well, here's the path.
This is the first time that I came
up-- we knew that this works.
So if I switch to mine and I jump to this
last breakpoint, shows the Bezier path.
And you see that there is no Bezier path.
I've got a nil path.
That's probably why it's not drawing.
So I'm going to quickly jump to where
I set this path, and I continue again.
And let's trigger this breakpoint one more time.
So here is where I generate a Bezier path
and then set it on myself for later use.
You notice if I hover over each of the parts of
this line, I get individual step in to controls.
That makes it really easy if I don't want to step
into the inner most part of this method to just step
in to the outermost part by pressing this button.
In this case, I actually do want
to step into the inner most part,
because that's the method to generate the Bezier curve.
So here, I can just start stepping to the
method to try and figure out what's wrong.
I switched base in the type of path I want to draw.
Oh, and I jumped right to the end.
Well, it looks like I just forgot to write the code
to generate this particular type of Bezier path.
Now, I have code here that I can paste in to
fix this, oops, that I can paste in to fix this.
But before I do that, I want to make
sure that this doesn't happen again.
Instead of just fixing my bugs and then
giving it the opportunity in the future
when I come back and make more changes to this code.
For regression to occur, for my Bezier path not to be
generated properly again, I want to point put in a unit test
so that I have confidence that I can change the code and
know that the things that you used to work still work.
And in fact, I'm going to put this
unit test in before I put the fix in.
Because that lets me verify that
my fix works in the first place.
So how do I get started building unit tests?
It's pretty easy.
First of all, I want to add a unit test target.
I'm going to go to the project menu and say, "New target."
And you see we have unit tests for both iPhone and
Mac OS X, and I'm going to call this "Bezier Tests,"
this is a name of my target and opens up the target
inspector for me, but I don't need that quite yet.
And now, I also need a test case class to run.
So I'm going to create a new file from
the Objective-C test case class template.
And this is a test case for my Bezier view class.
So we'll call it Bezier view tests.
And you see it gave me a couple of new files here.
And it's ready for me to rate some test.
So I'm going to go ahead, and I've
already written this test ahead of time.
Paste this in.
What this test does is, it's going to create a
new Bezier view, set the line path type on it,
because that's what I'm trying to test here.
Try and generate a Bezier path from
that view, and it's going to check
and see if the path it got back was nil or not.
And if it's not nil, the test will pass.
Before I can go ahead and build this,
there are a couple of things I need to do.
On this code here, I'm referencing Bezier
view, that's a class in my applications.
So I need to import it, so that I can
actually see the decoration for the class.
But my-- oh, another thing I want to do here is make sure
that my test case class is included in the right target.
So what I did here was get info on the
source file, choose the Targets tab,
and tell it that it belongs to the tests target.
But that's the target that you compile this test.
Finally, I need to view the link against that class.
But that class is in my applications.
It's not in the library.
So there's something I can do.
In some cases, you might just compile
that class in to your test bundle as well,
like if you're doing an iPhone unit test
or depending on what your preferences are.
The downside of that is that you have to recompile
all your classes in your text bundle if you do that.
I don't want to do that.
I want to link against my Bezier
view class out of my application.
And so I'm going to do that by setting a
couple build settings in my test bundle.
So I'm going to get info on my test bundle
and go to the build settings inspector.
Now this is a long list of things to search through.
You usually don't want to have
to look through the whole thing.
Instead, you can use the search field
to find what you're looking for.
So I'm looking for the bundle loader build setting.
And you see when I search to tape that in, it just shows up.
It will tell me all about this build setting if I want.
And I'm going to say that the application, my application
is the loader for the-- this bundle that'll let me--
that will cause the linker to find classes in it for me.
The value I'm going to set here is the path to
that application in my build settings directory.
It's a special build settings value.
And so I can just set this by double-clicking
it and pasting that value.
There's one other thing I have to do
here which is to set the test host
which will this test to run in the application.
So, when I run my unit test, it will launch the application,
inject the test bundle in to it, and run my test.
And that is also the same application.
Now, when I build my test bundle, it's going
to want to link against the application.
But that means the application is
to be built present and up to date.
And to make that happen, I'm going
to set a target dependency.
So here, I click the plus button, add
a target dependency on my application.
And now when I build my test target, it
will always build my application first.
What that means now, is in-- when I make source changes to
my application, instead of building the application to see
if it worked, I can always build my test bundle.
And what that'll do is build the dependent target first, the
application target which will build the changes I just made,
and then run the test that I have
in the test bundle which will verify
that the changes I just made didn't break any of my test.
It's a really nice work for once you have this setup just
always the test target to build any changes that you have.
To do that, I have to set it as the active target
and I can use the overview pop-up to do that.
So I'm selecting Bezier tests.
So now I've got, in my test target,
the source file for my test,
a dependency in the application
target, I've set my build settings.
I should be good to go.
When I build this target, a test target has a run script
phase as it's the last step which actually runs your test.
So all I have to do here is click Builds, and
it's building my test target and running my test.
And you can see it's telling me what architecture it's
running the test for, what test suite it's running.
The test case, it's test new line Bezier path,
and the test failed which is what we expected
because I haven't added the code to make this test pass yet.
So now, I'm going to go and actually
implement that type of Bezier path.
So I've got my separate code to make this
work, and I'm just going to paste this in...
[ Pause ]
>> ...and I'm going to go ahead and build again.
And you'll see that it rebuilt my application
and ran my test and there were no issues.
The test passed.
And if you want to make sure, you can look at all messages
and see that-- yeah, it ran my test, the test passed.
Great! And if you really want to
see, you can launch the application.
I'm going to turn off breakpoints
here, so that it doesn't keep stopping.
And it works.
So testing is very, very valuable.
We encourage you to add unit test
to your application and we think
that this provides a great environment for you to do that.
Back to you, Chris.
>> Thank you.
[ Applause ]
>> Thank you Rick.
In 70 minutes, we've taken you from the very beginning
of getting your DMG to install your developer tools
through creating your first project, going through
the editor, navigation, help system, build system,
writing unit tests, and debugging an
application, and getting ready for delivery.
There are a lot of other things to learn about this week.
There are some documentation overviews you should read.
I encourage you to read, read, read the
online documentation to get an idea.
It's a big product.
It's a rich product.
There's a lot in it.
The best way to do-- to learn about it is to sit
and read our introductory and overview materials.
There are a lot of great sessions
at the developer conference.